# CitiBike Linear_Regression_Proj1
A data science project stemmed from a previous data visualization project (https://github.com/pimicah/Micah-Citi-Bike-Dashboard).  The project uses R-Studio for Data Visualization, Data Analysis, and Linear regression models to gain deeper insight into bike sharing demands.

## 1.0 Business Problem
> The data and the description has been adapted from Kaggles's Bike Sharing Demand Challenge and Udemy...
> ##### Kaggle Dataset Description: You are provided hourly rental data spanning two years. For this competition, the training set is comprised of the first 19 days of each month, while the test set is the 20th to the end of the month. You must predict the total count of bikes rented during each hour covered by the test set, using only information available prior to the rental period.
> 
Bike sharing systems are a means of renting bicycles where the process of obtaining membership, rental, and bike return is automated via a network of kiosk locations throughout a city. Using these systems, people are able rent a bike from a one location and return it to a different place on an as-needed basis. Currently, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs around the world.  The data generated by these systems makes them attractive for researchers because the duration of travel, departure location, arrival location, and time elapsed is explicitly recorded. Bike sharing systems therefore function as a sensor network, which can be used for studying mobility in a city. In this competition, participants are asked to combine historical usage patterns with weather data in order to forecast bike rental demand in the Capital Bikeshare program in Washington, D.C.

By visualizing statistical data, more effective business decisions can be made through transparency of information. Decisions about expansion can be made by identifying different factors that play a part in the frequency of bikes being rented.  This dataset gives insight into the seasons, holidays, and various statistical weather phenomena that impact rental frequency. 
## 2.0 Business Assumption
The strategy to use a linear regression model to predict the total count of bikes rented during each hour, may improve the efficacy and implementation of new bike stations.

## 3.0 Solution Strategy
My solution to solve this problem will be the development of a data science project. This project will have a linear regression model which can predict the total count of bikes rented during each hour.

#### Step 01.Data Description:
In this first section the data will be collected and studied. The missing values will be threated or removed. Finally, a initial data description will carried out to know the data. Therefore some calculations of descriptive statistics will be made, such as kurtosis, skewness, media, fashion, median and standard deviation.

#### Step 02. Feature Engineering:
In this section, I manipulate the structure of the datetime column to separate the dates and times.  The times will become its own variable.  Each time will become its own variable so that we may reference each of the specific 24 hours in the day.  

#### Step 03. Data Filtering:
There's minimal data filtering on this dataset.  Each column of the data set can be used as a dependent to predict total counts of bikes.  For this project we will be primarily looking at the temperature.

#### Step 04. Exploratory Data Analysis:
The exploratory data analysis section consists of count vs datatime scattterplot with a color gradient based on temperature.  Following the exploratory data analysis two things can be clearly interpreted.  There is a seasonality to the data, for summer and winter.  Also the general increase of bike rental counts.  A possible problem to the linear regression model if the data is non-linear.

#### Step 05. Data Preparation: 


#### Step 06. Model Deployment:


#### Step 07. Conclusion:


## 3.0 Business Results


## 4.0 Conclusion


## 5.0 Lessons Learned
- Exploratory data analysis
- R-Studio
- Kaggle
- Linear Regression Models
